Results: figure 3 (best vs. smallest good analysis) (#5)
greenelab/generalization-manuscript: content/02.main-text.md

## Results {.page_break_before}

### "Best" and "smallest good" model selection strategies perform comparably

> To address the question of whether more parsimonious models tend to generalize better or not, we designed two model selection schemes and compared them, for the TCGA to CCLE and CCLE to TCGA mutation prediction problems (Figure {@fig:tcga_ccle_smallest_best}A).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address the question of whether more parsimonious models tend to generalize better or not, we designed two model selection schemes and compared them for the TCGA to CCLE and CCLE to TCGA mutation prediction problems (Figure {@fig:tcga_ccle_smallest_best}A).
```

> The "best" model selection scheme chooses the top-performing model/LASSO parameter on the holdout dataset from the same source as the training data, and applies it to the test data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "best" model selection scheme chooses the top-performing model/LASSO parameter on the holdout dataset from the same source as the training data and applies it to the test data from the other data source.
```

The intention of the "smallest good" model selection scheme is to balance parsimony with reasonable performance on the holdout data, since simply selecting the smallest possible model (generally, the dummy regressor/mean predictor) is not likely to generalize well.

> To accomplish this, we first identify the top 25% of well-performing models on the holdout dataset, then from this subset of models we choose the smallest (i.e. highest LASSO parameter) to apply to the test data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To accomplish this, we first identify the top 25% of well-performing models on the holdout dataset; then, from this subset of models, we choose the smallest (i.e., highest LASSO parameter) to apply to the test data.
```

> Note that in both cases, we are exclusively using the holdout data to select a model, and only using the out-of-dataset samples to evaluate generalization performance _after_ selecting a model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both cases, we exclusively use the holdout data to select a model and only apply the model to out-of-dataset samples to evaluate generalization performance _after_ model selection.
```

> We saw that for TCGA to CCLE generalization, 27/71 genes (38.0%) had better performance for the "best" model and 17/71 genes (23.9%) had better generalization performance with the "smallest good" model, with the other 27 genes having the same "best" and "smallest good" model (in other words, the "smallest good" model was also the best-performing overall, and the difference was exactly 0) (Figure {@fig:tcga_ccle_smallest_best}B).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For TCGA to CCLE generalization, 27/71 genes (38.0%) had better performance for the "best" model, and 17/71 genes (23.9%) had better generalization performance with the "smallest good" model.
The other 27 genes had the same "best" and "smallest good" model (in other words, the "smallest good" model was also the best-performing overall, and the difference was 0) (Figure {@fig:tcga_ccle_smallest_best}B).
```

> For CCLE to TCGA generalization, 23/70 genes (32.9%) had better performance for the "best" model and 18/70 (25.7%) for the "smallest good", with the other 29 having the same model fulfill both criteria (Figure {@fig:tcga_ccle_smallest_best}C).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For CCLE to TCGA generalization, 23/70 genes (32.9%) had better performance for the "best" model and 18/70 (25.7%) for the "smallest good," with the other 29 having the same model fulfill both criteria (Figure {@fig:tcga_ccle_smallest_best}C).
```

> Overall, these results do not support the hypothesis that the most parsimonious model generalizes the best: for both generalization problems there are slightly more genes where the best-performing model on the holdout dataset is also the best-performing on the test set, although there are some genes where the "smallest good" approach does work well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overall, these results do not support the hypothesis that the most parsimonious model generalizes the best: for both generalization problems there are slightly more genes where the best-performing model on the holdout dataset is also the best-performing on the test set, although there are some genes where the "smallest good" approach works well.
```

> We looked at examples of genes that fall into either category for TCGA to CCLE generalization (dotted lines on Figure {@fig:tcga_ccle_smallest_best}B).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We examined genes that fell into either category for TCGA to CCLE generalization (dotted lines on Figure {@fig:tcga_ccle_smallest_best}B).
```
